created issue-wrangler.md (#42273)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/contribute/participate/issue-wrangler.md

---
title: Issue Wranglers
content_type: concept
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

> There are many issues that need triage, and in order to reduce our reliance on formal approvers or reviewers, we have introduced a new role to wrangle issues every week.The main responsibility of this role is to bridge the gap between organizational contributor and reviewer.

Reviewer: I'd recommend this to be phrased as below
```suggestion
In order to reduce the burden on the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wrangler), formal approvers, and reviewers, members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.

This section covers the duties of an Issue Wrangler.
```

> This section covers the duties of a PR wrangler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<!-- body -->

## Duties

Each day in a week-long shift as Issue Wrangler:

> - Making sure the issue is worded and titled correctly to provide contributors with adequate information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Triage and tag incoming issues daily. See [Triage and categorize issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for guidelines on how SIG Docs uses metadata.
```

Reviewer: As an aside, we might want to remove this from the PR Wrangler file to avoid overlap. Thoughts?

Author: Totally agree!!

---
title: Issue Wranglers
content_type: concept
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

> In order to reduce the burden on the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wrangler), formal approvers, and reviewers, members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.

Reviewer 2: It appears that the link may require updating.

```suggestion
In order to reduce the burden on the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers), formal approvers, and reviewers, members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.
```

<!-- body -->

## Duties

Each day in a week-long shift as Issue Wrangler:

> - Triage and tag incoming issues daily. See [Triage and categorize issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for guidelines on how SIG Docs uses metadata.

Reviewer 2: The github link appears to be directing to a 404 error page; an update might be needed. 
_(There is also option to use https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers/#triage-and-categorize-issues)_

 ```suggestion
- Triage and tag incoming issues daily. See [Triage and categorize issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/content/en/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md#triage-and-categorize-issues) for guidelines on how SIG Docs uses metadata.
```

- Identifying whether the issue falls under the support category and assigning a "triage/accepted" status.
- Assuring the issue is tagged with the appropriate sig/area/kind labels.
- Keeping an eye on stale & rotten issues within the kubernetes/website repository.
- [Issues board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/72/views/1) maintenance would be nice

### Requirements

- Must be an active member of the Kubernetes organization.

> - A minimum of 15 quality contributions to Kubernetes (of which a certain amount should be directed towards kubernetes/website).

Reviewer: @natalisucks @reylejano any specific number that you want to add here for the bracketed quote?
```suggestion
- A minimum of 15 quality contributions to Kubernetes (of which a certain amount should be directed towards kubernetes/website).
```

Reviewer 3: Can we replace the word "quality" with "non-trivial" and then link to the trivial edits policy? I think that would be clearer for people in terms of what we mean by quality. WDYT?

Author: +1

Author: @natalisucks can you please share with me the link to the page that needs to be added?

Reviewer 2: _Trivial Edits link: https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/#trivial-edits_

- Performing the role in an informal capacity already

### Helpful Prow commands for wranglers

```
# reopen an issue
/reopen

# transfer issues that don't fit in k/website to another repository
/transfer[-issue]

# change the state of rotten issues
/remove-lifecycle rotten
```

> 

Reviewer: Can also add other commands such as:
 
- /remove-lifecycle stale 
- /sig <sig_name> => This is used to assign the sig to an issue
- /area <area_name> => Used to add a specific area (look up the k8s-ci-robot commands list for areas you can add
- //kind support => Tagging issue as support-specific
- /help wanted
- /good-first-issue
- /triage accepted => to accept triaging for an issue

Reviewer 4: Would a link to the prow commands be helpful?
https://prow.k8s.io/command-help

### When to close Issues

For an open source project to succeed, good issue management is crucial. But it is also critical to resolve issues in order to maintain the repository and communicate clearly with contributors and users.

Close issues when:

> - A similar issue has been reported more than once. It is also advisable to direct the users to the original issue.

Reviewer: When a similar issue is reported more than once, you'll first tag it as /triage duplicate; link it to the main issue & then close it. The second sentence is okay.

- It is very difficult to understand and address the issue presented by the author with the information provided.
  However, encourage the user to provide more details or reopen the issue if they can reproduce it later.
- Having implemented the same functionality elsewhere. One can close this issue and direct user to the appropriate place.
- Feature requests that are not currently planned or aligned with the project's goals.

> - If the assignee has not responded to comments or feedback in more than two weeks

Reviewer: This is a very arbitrary & sketchy timeline. 

@sftim @natalisucks @reylejano : Any thoughts on this?

Reviewer 4: I would leave out a time frame to respond back
Anyone can assign themselves an issue. I don't think it's appropriate to close an issue if an assignee does not reply to comments or take action.

Author: @divya-mohan0209 I am thinking of removing line 53. Is that okay or should I mention something else replacing this ??

Reviewer: @haripriya9647 : Please remove line #53.

---
title: Issue Wranglers
content_type: concept
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

> In order to reduce the burden on the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers),and formal approvers, and reviewers, members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Alongside the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers),and formal approvers, and reviewers, members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.
```

<!-- body -->

## Duties

Each day in a week-long shift as Issue Wrangler:

- Triage and tag incoming issues daily. See [Triage and categorize issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/content/en/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for guidelines on how SIG Docs uses metadata.
- Identifying whether the issue falls under the support category and assigning a "triage/accepted" status.
- Ensuring the issue is tagged with the appropriate sig/area/kind labels.
- Keeping an eye on stale & rotten issues within the kubernetes/website repository.
- Maintenance of [Issues board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/72/views/1) would be nice

### Requirements

- Must be an active member of the Kubernetes organization.
- A minimum of 15 [non-trivial](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/#trivial-edits) contributions to Kubernetes (of which a certain amount should be directed towards kubernetes/website).
- Performing the role in an informal capacity already

> ### Helpful [Prow commands](https://prow.k8s.io/command-help) for wranglers

Reviewer 5: Extra: mention `/close not-planned` (useful when closing an issue we won't work on and haven't fixed - for example, a duplicate bug report)

---
title: Issue Wranglers
content_type: concept
weight: 20
---

<!-- overview -->

> Alongside the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers),and formal approvers, and reviewers, members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Alongside the [PR Wrangler](/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers), formal approvers, reviewers, and members of SIG Docs take week long shifts [triaging and categorising issues](/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for the repository.
```

<!-- body -->

## Duties

> Each day in a week-long shift as Issue Wrangler:

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Each day in a week-long shift, the Issue Wrangler will be responsible for:
```

> - Triage and tag incoming issues daily. See [Triage and categorize issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/content/en/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for guidelines on how SIG Docs uses metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Triaging and tagging incoming issues daily. See [Triage and categorize issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/blob/main/content/en/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers.md/#triage-and-categorize-issues) for guidelines on how SIG Docs uses metadata.
```

> - Identifying whether the issue falls under the support category and assigning a "triage/accepted" status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Ensuring the issue is tagged with the appropriate sig/area/kind labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Keeping an eye on stale & rotten issues within the kubernetes/website repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keeping an eye on stale & rotten issues within the kubernetes/website repository.
```

> - Maintenance of [Issues board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/72/views/1) would be nice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maintenance of the [Issues board](https://github.com/orgs/kubernetes/projects/72/views/1).
```

- A minimum of 15 [non-trivial](https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/pull-requests/#trivial-edits) contributions to Kubernetes (of which a certain amount should be directed towards kubernetes/website).
- Performing the role in an informal capacity already

### Helpful [Prow commands](https://prow.k8s.io/command-help) for wranglers

```
# reopen an issue
/reopen

# transfer issues that don't fit in k/website to another repository
/transfer[-issue]

# change the state of rotten issues
/remove-lifecycle rotten

# change the state of stale issues
/remove-lifecycle stale

# assign sig to an issue
/sig <sig_name>

# add specific area
/area <area_name>

# for beginner friendly issues
/good-first-issue

# issues that needs help
/help wanted

# tagging issue as support specific
/kind support

# to accept triaging for an issue
/triage accepted

# closing an issue we won't be working on and haven't fixed yet
/close not-planned
```

### When to close Issues

For an open source project to succeed, good issue management is crucial. But it is also critical to resolve issues in order to maintain the repository and communicate clearly with contributors and users.

Close issues when:

> - When a similar issue is reported more than once, you'll first tag it as /triage duplicate; link it to the main issue & then close it. It is also advisable to direct the users to the original issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A similar issue is reported more than once. You will first need to tag it as /triage duplicate; link it to the main issue & then close it. It is also advisable to direct the users to the original issue.
```

- It is very difficult to understand and address the issue presented by the author with the information provided.
  However, encourage the user to provide more details or reopen the issue if they can reproduce it later.

> - Having implemented the same functionality elsewhere. One can close this issue and direct user to the appropriate place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The same functionality is implemented elsewhere. One can close this issue and direct user to the appropriate place.
```

> - Feature requests that are not currently planned or aligned with the project's goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The reported issue is not currently planned or aligned with the project's goals.
```

> - In cases where an issue appears to be spam and is clearly unrelated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the issue appears to be spam and is clearly unrelated.
```
